Partner: Joe

While attempting to figure out what on earth we would do for this assignment, I received an email from Bennington. Attached to this email was something very different than the usual one containing some Bennington achievement. It was a pdf with the yearly Bennington security report. The data it had showed each type of offence, and the number of violations for the last three years. It was magnificent. An exquisite representation of us through the exclusion of our accomplishments. I could see what our values were at the core. But I saw something else. While some offences were minor, some were severe. Obviously (and thankfully) the magnitude of minor violations were high, and vice versa. In the year 2015 for every forced sexual assault, there were 48 liquor law violations. Each time someone is traumatized, forty eight people forgot to put their booze in a mug.

I saw sexual assault drowning in booze. 

So I thought, “Why not literally show that?”
And that’s exactly what we did. We decided to visually represent each offence as a ball of clay, colored by assault type:

Red-Fire

Orange-Non Forcible Sexual Assault

Yellow-Violence

Green-Drug Law Violation

Brown-Burglary

Gray- Forcible Sexual Assault

Black-Weapon Law Violation

Natural Color -Liquor Law Violation

In 2014 there were 140 violations, in 2015 there were 155 violations, and in 2016 there were 131 violations. That means there were 426 clay balls in total. The making 426 clay balls by hand was incredibly tedious and repetitive. Along with figuring out the right size to make the balls and the right size jar that would fit 155 balls. The majority of the violations were for the liquor law, and because of this the majority of the balls are white–drowning out the color. This piece is an interactive one, so people are encouraged to put their hand in the jar and pick one out. See if you can distinguish if it represents a piece of data, or something more.