Philosophy of Data Final Proposal

Matt Collyer

Okay I have two ideas.  
Idea one:

A while ago in Impossible Maps, you assigned the reading: Catherine D'Ignazio's Feminist Data Visualization.  And in it, she mentions a talk by Andy Kirk about the Design of Nothing. I was quite intrigued by this and watched the video. I found it very interesting and it got me thinking about how powerful the absence of something can be. So I was thinking about possibly representing the Paris Agreement and how the only country that has rejected it is the United States. I think it could be really interesting to have all of the countries–except for the United States– represented in some way. I think to visually have the absence of the United States in something that represents the whole world could really bring new meaning. So I was thinking about creating several mini pieces for this project. All being different ways to represent something missing. Some examples: An image made up of all of the flags of the countries that have signed the agreement, and the size of the flag would be scaled by the emissions the country gives out. Meaning the countries that are least responsible for climate change would have smaller flags, and the countries that are quite responsible (like China and the US) would have their flag very large. Except the there would not be an flag for the US! Just a big, empty spot. (Big because we’re ranked #2 in our emissions!) I understand that was terribly described, but that’s just one mini piece (albeit probably the most tricky). Another would be to have dominoes stacked up, one for every country. However one would be missing, ultimately breaking the chain. (I would probably take a picture of the dominoes or something, I probably couldn’t bring it into class).  I realize that this seems pretty broad and vague, but if I choose this idea I’ll very likely think of more mini pieces to do to at least have a few. If you’re confused about any of this (I myself am having trouble understanding what the heck I’m writing! (I should probably get some sleep)) just talk to me and I’ll try to explain it in person. 

Idea two:

In my class Database Management Systems, for my final project I’m working with the data from google quickdraw. And I’m starting to have some possible ideas with it. I found a link on their README to a cool project here: http://project.laboiteatortue.com/facesofhumanity/#/ I think this is a really neat idea, and there's so many possibilities with the drawings that I think I could create something similar ish? I was also thinking about comparing the complexities in the drawings between countries. I'm not super sure on any of this, all I know is that I think it’s cool data and that it would be quite nice being able to almost work on two different projects at once, since a lot of the work would be similar. 
Ha! 

I’d love to hear your thoughts on any of this stuff. 
