---
layout: post-light-feature
title: My Thoughts
description: How I feel so far
categories: articles
date: {2017-09-12}
published: true
---
After reading The Internet With A Human Face, by Maciej Ceglowski, I can’t help but wonder if “Big Data” is, was, inevitable. What really intrigued me is when Ceglowski stated “If the algorithms don't work, that's a sign we need more data. If the algorithms do work, then imagine how much better they'll work with more data. There's only one outcome allowed: collect more data.” This makes me see this problem in a different light, as one that cannot be avoided. Humans have been seeking as much information as possible ever since we came into existence. So wouldn’t the conclusion be to know everything about everyone everywhere? I, of course don’t like the sound of that, but it really gets me thinking. Could an instinctual human trait be the downfall of freedom? “Big Data” to me sounds a lot like “Big Brother” (and not just because they’re only one word apart). How long before nothing is kept secret? This is revealing new, unforeseen, problems with government and control. Being truly free is becoming harder than ever. Does an illusion of being free constitute as freedom? Meaning– if people know everything about your habits, movements, purchases, desires, goals, friends, and family, how free are you? Well I’d say it depends on your scope. But can one feel unchained while an eye is on them at all times? I’m rambling here, asking questions I don’t know the answer to and never will, but whatever! While the threat of these scary things are looming over us, I currently prefer to choose ignorance and roll with it. Connection is cool. Knowledge is cool. Every bit of innovation comes with a cost. If the right regulations are enforced, specifically the wonderful eight that Ceglowski brought up, I think the future can be bright. On a completely other note, I was intrigued by the issue mentioned concerning California’s geography. It truly does make no sense to house our data in a tectonically unsound location. Does the problem lie in the difficulty of starting companies elsewhere? According to Wikipedia, “Silicon Valley also accounts for one-third of all of the venture capital investment in the United States, which has helped it to become a leading hub and startup ecosystem for high-tech innovation and scientific development.” Hopefully, due to the exponentially increasing demand of such technology, tech companies will start to branch out of California’s shaky ground, and distribute themselves about the world with ease. I’d like to see a world where internet is evenly dispersed with high speed connection for all countries. The internet is one of our greatest achievements. One that paints a picture of who we are. Let’s hope the painting is colorful, and lives on. 
