#It's Bliss.

For my midterm, I desired to create a satirical map on people’s beliefs of climate change. I wanted to show the idiocy of not believing the data of global warming while at the same time completely believing current weather data. I figured I’d skew the literal weather with however many people believe in climate change. The goal was to have a temperature weather map, in a heatmap type form. Then to have a literal draggable filter (which I had dubbed “the cloud of ignorance”) which when pulled over the map would change the temperature (and respective color) of the location based on people’s beliefs on climate change. Yeah that sounds quite confusing.

Here’s an example:

Say in Bennington VT  the temperature was 80 degrees. At the same time the general opinion of climate change was that only 50% of Bennington residents believed that it was happening (I’m now realizing maybe Bennington was not the best example, but use your imagination! ).  Bennington on the map would show the respective color of 80 degrees, like a warm orange. Then once the “cloud of ignorance” is pulled over the temperature would drop 50%, to a nice cool 40 degrees, probably a chilly blue color. 

So that was the goal at least.

I knew this was ambitious, so I tried planning out what would be needed. First, opinion of climate change data. That’s what everything rested on. This would be tricky. Oh, well what do ya know– one quick Google search and Yale was there with more than I could ever need. The data was perfect! Next, a weather API. This was easy to find. I ended up going with DarkSky’s API, which was easy to use.

Okay so here’s where the trouble started.
I began by downloading the opinion data as csv. The data did not cover as small as towns, but it did have data for counties. So I figured that would be good enough. 
Then I realized in order to successfully call the API to get the temperature I would need coordinates. And… counties don’t have coordinates. I figured I’d need the coordinates of the very center of the county. But where would I find that? Well, somehow I found a table on wikipedia of all the counties and their center coordinates, how nice! So then I found a tool online which converted the table to a csv, nice. But how could I combine this csv with the opinion csv? Well thankfully there was a key I could use. Both datasets included a county ID. So I wrote a python script which combined the two csv using the key to compare. With that having been done, I was ready to find geoJSON county polygon data. This was not as easy to find and took a few hours, but I found one mega geoJSON file with every county! So I converted the csv to geoJSON, and wrote a python script which turned both files into dictionaries and then added the opinions and special coordinates to them based on the same previous county ID key (thankfully the geoJSON had it as well).  This left me with one mega geoJSON polygon county data with the climate change opinion and the center coordinates for each county. Then I realized it would be incredibly difficult to call the API within the javascript for each county. So I figured I could write a python script which would loop through the geoJSON, call the API by sending in the respective coordinates (which is much easier to do in python) and add the temperature to a new temperature key. 
This would have worked fine, but I forgot: 

I’m limited to 1000 calls to the API a day.
 
And that's as far as my midterm got. 

So around came my final project and I decided I would at least finish the map. I figured it would only be around 50 cents to call the API as much as I needed to update the data once, so why not! I could afford that!!
So that's what I did. I got the weather data, and started to work on the map itself. This was the tricky part. I could not find any sign if what I wanted to do was even possible (the draggable "cloud" filter aspect). After days of researching and trying different methods I realized it was not possible. So I went for the next best thing: 

Toggable layer buttons.

Now I am not really happy about this, but it was my next best option. Creating these buttons, due to my lack of skill in the HTML/CSS/JS world was a challenge. And, after an entire day was spent creating and tweaking them, they actually worked. 

However, I was not too happy with the final product. It was less intuitive than I had hoped, and it was less obvious what I was going for. It unfortunately was not reflective of the image I had in my head. Clicking the buttons just make the whole U.S. look colder. This might be due to the fact that it's winter, since the majority of the US is already quite cold, decreasing the temperature obviously just makes it colder, creating that blue -> darker blue effect when a button is clicked. 

I will try this again in the spring/summer/fall and see if it has a better result then. 

How to use the map:

* The default layer is the last updated unaltered temperature. 
* Hover over a certain county for information.
* Click "Happening" to see the layer displaying the altered temperature. The temperature is decreased by the percent of people in that county that do not believe climate change is happening.
* Click "Human Activity" to see the layer displaying the altered temperature. The temperature is decreased by the percent of people in that county that do not believe climate change is caused by human activity. 


LINKS:

[The Final Map](https://mattcollyer.github.io/Impossible-Maps-Final/map)


RESOURCES:

[Yale Climate Change Data](http://climatecommunication.yale.edu/visualizations-data/ycom-us-2016)

Weather API: [Darksky](https://darksky.net)

[Table with counties and their respective coordinates]
(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:Michael_J/County_table)

[Counties GeoJSON](http://eric.clst.org/Stuff/USGeoJSON)
